---
title: "Methodological challenges in using point-prevalence versus cohort
data in risk factor analyses of hospital-acquired infections"
author: "Martin Wolkewitz"
date: 2018-04-27
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2018 Winter"]
---

#### Date: 2018-04-27
#### Time: 15:30-16:30
#### Location: BURN 1205

## Abstract:

	

To explore the impact of length-biased sampling on the evaluation of risk
factors of nosocomial infections in point-prevalence studies.
We used cohort data with full information including the exact date of the
nosocomial infection and mimicked an artificial one-day prevalence study by
picking a sample from this cohort study. Based on the cohort data, we studied
the underlying multi-state model which accounts for nosocomial infection as an
intermediate and discharge/death as competing events. Simple formulas are
derived to display relationships between risk-, hazard- and prevalence odds
ratios. 
Due to length-biased sampling, long-stay and thus sicker patients are more
likely to be sampled. In addition, patients with nosocomial infections usually stay longer in hospital. We explored mechanisms which are -due to the design-
hidden in prevalence data. In our example, we showed that prevalence odds
ratios were usually less pronounced than risk odds ratios but more pronounced
than hazard ratios.
Thus, to avoid misinterpretation, knowledge of the mechanisms from the
underlying multi-state model are essential for the interpretation of risk factors
derived from point-prevalence data.

## Speaker

Prof. Martin Wolkewitz, mathematician, is leading the division 'Methods in Clinical Epidemiology'
which belongs to the Institute of Medical Biometry and Statistics, Freiburg, Germany. He is the group
leader of seven mathematicians and two health economists.
The main research interests of our group include: statistical modelling in clinical epidemiology, bias
evaluation, health-care cost evaluation, risk communication, advanced survival analysis (such as
multistate models, competing risk models), study designs with applications in hospital-acquired infections,
antimicrobial resistance, influenza, oncology and society.


 
