---
title: "Some development on dynamic computer experiments"
author: "C. Devon Lin"
date: 2018-03-23
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2018 Winter"]
---

#### Date: 2018-03-23
#### Time: 15:30-16:30
#### Location: BURN 1205

## Abstract:

	
Computer experiments refer to the study of real systems using complex simulation models.
They have been widely used as efficient, economical alternatives to physical experiments.
Computer experiments with time series outputs are called dynamic computer experiments.
In this talk, we consider two problems of such experiments: emulation of large-scale dynamic
computer experiments and inverse problem. For the first problem, we proposed a
computationally efficient modelling approach which sequentially finds a set of local design
points based on a new criterion specifically designed for emulating dynamic computer
simulators. Singular value decomposition based Gaussian process models are built with the
sequentially chosen local data. To update the models efficiently, an empirical Bayesian
approach is introduced. The second problem aims to extract an optimal input of dynamic
computer simulator whose response matches a field observation as closely as possible. A
sequential design approach is employed and a novel expected improvement criterion is
proposed. A real application is discussed to support the efficiency of the proposed approaches.  


This is joint work with Ru Zhang at Queen’s University and Pritam Ranjan at Indian Institute of
Management Indore.

## Speaker

Chunfang Devon Lin is an Associate Professor at the Department of Mathematics and Statistics, at Queen's University. Her research includes: Interface between data collection and data modeling; Theory and applications of fractional factorial designs; Design construction for computer experiments


 
