---
title: "	Modeling operational risk using a Bayesian approach to EVT"
author: "Elena Rivera Mancia"
date: 2012-10-12
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2012 Fall"]
---

#### Date: 2012-10-12
#### Time: 14:30-15:30
#### Location: BURN 1205

## Abstract:

Extreme Value Theory has been widely used for assessing risk for highly unusual events, either by using block maxima or peaks over the threshold (POT) methods. However, one of the main drawbacks of the POT method is the choice of a threshold, which plays an important role in the estimation since the parameter estimates strongly depend on this value. Bayesian inference is an alternative to handle these difficulties; the threshold can be treated as another parameter in the estimation, avoiding the classical empirical approach. In addition, it is possible to incorporate internal and external observations in combination with expert opinion, providing a natural, probabilistic framework in which to evaluate risk models. In this talk, we analyze operational risk data using a mixture model which combines a parametric form for the center and a GPD for the tail of the distribution, using all observations for inference about the unknown parameters from both distributions, the threshold included. A Bayesian analysis is performed and inference is carried out through Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods in order to determine the minimum capital requirement for operational risk.


## Speaker

Elena Rivera Mancia is a PhD candidate in our department. Her main supervisor is David A. Stephens, her co-supervisor is Johanna Nešlehová.
