---
title: "Ridges and valleys in the high excursion sets of Gaussian random fields"
author: "Gennady Samorodnitsky"
date: 2016-03-10
categories: ["CRM-Colloquium"]
tags: ["2016 Winter"]
---

#### Date: 2016-03-10
#### Time: 15:30-16:30
#### Location: MAASS 217, McGill

## Abstract:

	
	
It is well known that normal random variables do not like taking large values.  Therefore, a continuous Gaussian random field on a compact set does not like exceeding a large level.  If it does exceed a large level at some point, it tends to go back below the level a short distance away from that point.  One, therefore, does not expect the excursion set above a high for such a field to possess any interesting structure.  Nonetheless, if we want to know how likely are two points in such an excursion set to be connected by a path ("a ridge") in the excursion set, how do we figure that out? If we know that a ridge in the excursion set exists (e.g.  the field is above a high level on the surface of a sphere), how likely is there to be also a valley (e.g.  the field going to below a fraction of the level somewhere inside that sphere)? 

We use the large deviation approach.  Some surprising results (and pictures) are obtained.



## Speaker

Gennady Samorodnitsky is a Professor in the School of Operations Research and Information Engineering at Cornell. He is a distinguished probabilist with broad interests, including stochastic models, long-range dependence, random fields, scale-free random graphs and extreme-value theory.

