---
title: "CoCoLasso for high-dimensional error-in-variables regression"
author: "Hui Zou"
date: 2016-09-30
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2016 Fall"]
---

#### Date: 2016-09-30
#### Time: 15:30-16:30
#### Location: BURN 1205

## Abstract:

	
	
Much theoretical and applied work has been devoted to high-dimensional regression with clean data. However, we often face corrupted data in many applications where missing data and measurement errors cannot be ignored. Loh and Wainwright (2012) proposed a non-convex modification of the Lasso for doing high-dimensional regression with noisy and missing data. It is generally agreed that the virtues of convexity contribute fundamentally the success and popularity of the Lasso. In light of this, we propose a new method named CoCoLasso that is convex and can handle a general class of corrupted datasets including the cases of additive measurement error and random missing data. We establish the estimation error bounds of CoCoLasso and its asymptotic sign-consistent selection property. We further elucidate how the standard cross validation techniques can be misleading in presence of measurement error and develop a novel corrected cross-validation technique by using the basic idea in CoCoLasso. The corrected cross-validation has its own importance. We demonstrate the superior performance of our method over the non-convex approach by simulation studies.





## Speaker

Hui Zou is a Professor in the School of Statistics at the University of Minnesota.
