---
title: "Modeling dependence in bivariate multi-state processes: A frailty approach"
author: "Andrea Giussani"
date: 2016-12-02
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2016 Fall"]
---

#### Date: 2016-12-02
#### Time: 15:30-16:30
#### Location: BURN 1205

## Abstract:

	
The aim of this talk is to present a statistical framework for the analysis of dependent bivariate multistate processes, allowing one to study the dependence both across subjects in a pair and among individual-specific events. As for the latter, copula- based models are employed, whereas dependence between multi-state models can be accomplished by means of frailties. The well known Marshall-Olkin Bivariate Exponential Distribution (MOBVE) is considered for the joint distribution of frailties. The reason is twofold: on the one hand, it allows one to model shocks that affect the two individual-specific frailties; on the other hand, the MOBVE is the only bivariate exponential distribution with exponential marginals, which allows for the modeling of each multi-state process as a shared frailty model. We first discuss a frailty bivariate survival model with some new results, and then move to the construction of the frailty bivariate multi-state model, with the corresponding observed data likelihood maximization estimating procedure in presence of right censoring. The last part of the talk will be dedicated to some open problems related to the modeling of multiple multi-state processes in presence of Marshall-Olkin type copulas.




## Speaker

Andrea Giussani is a PhD candidate in Statistics at Bocconi University, Milan (Italy). His current scientific research is focused on event-history and survival data analysis.