---
title: "Mylène Bédard: On the empirical efficiency of local MCMC algorithms with pools of proposals"
author: "Mylène Bédard"
date: 2013-01-25
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2013 Winter"]
---

#### Date: 2013-01-25
#### Time: 14:30-15:30
#### Location: BURN 1205

## Abstract:

	
In an attempt to improve on the Metropolis algorithm, various MCMC methods with auxiliary variables, such as the multiple-try and delayed rejection Metropolis algorithms, have been proposed. These methods generate several candidates in a single iteration; accordingly they are computationally more intensive than the Metropolis algorithm. It is usually difficult to provide a general estimate for the computational cost of a method without being overly conservative; potentially efficient methods could thus be overlooked by relying on such estimates. In this talk, we describe three algorithms with auxiliary variables - the multiple-try Metropolis (MTM) algorithm, the multiple-try Metropolis hit-and-run (MTM-HR) algorithm, and the delayed rejection Metropolis algorithm with antithetic proposals (DR-A) - and investigate the net performance of these algorithms in various contexts. To allow for a fair comparison, the study is carried under optimal mixing conditions for each of these algorithms. The DR-A algorithm, whose proposal scheme introduces correlation in the pool of candidates, seems particularly promising. The algorithms are used in the contexts of Bayesian logistic regressions and classical inference for a linear regression model. This talk is based on work in collaboration with M. Mireuta, E. Moulines, and R. Douc.


## Speaker

Mylène Bédard is an Associate Professor of Statistics at the Université de Montréal.

