---
title: "What percentage of children in the U.S. are eating a healthy diet? A statistical approach"
author: "Raymond J. Carroll"
date: 2012-12-14
categories: ["CRM-Colloquium"]
tags: ["2012 Fall"]
---

#### Date: 2012-12-14
#### Time: 14:30-15:30
#### Location: Concordia,  Room LB 921-04

## Abstract:

	
In the United States the preferred method of obtaining dietary intake data is the 24-hour dietary recall, yet the measure of most interest is usual or long-term average daily intake, which is impossible to measure. Thus, usual dietary intake is assessed with considerable measurement error. Also, diet represents numerous foods, nutrients and other components, each of which have distinctive attributes. Sometimes, it is useful to examine intake of these components separately, but increasingly nutritionists are interested in exploring them collectively to capture overall dietary patterns and their effect on various diseases. Consumption of these components varies widely: some are consumed daily by almost everyone on every day, while others are episodically consumed so that 24-hour recall data are zero-inflated. In addition, they are often correlated with each other. Finally, it is often preferable to analyze the amount of a dietary component relative to the amount of energy (calories) in a diet because dietary recommendations often vary with energy level.

We propose the first model appropriate for this type of data, and give the first workable solution to fit such a model. After describing the model, we use survey-weighted MCMC computations to fit the model, with uncertainty estimation coming from balanced repeated replication. The methodology is illustrated through an application to estimating the population distribution of the Healthy Eating Index-2005 (HEI-2005), a multi-component dietary quality index involving ratios of interrelated dietary components to energy, among children aged 2-8 in the United States. We pose a number of interesting questions about the HEI-2005, and show that it is a powerful predictor of the risk of developing colorectal cancer.


## Speaker

Raymond J. Carroll is a professor of statistics at the Texas A&M University.