---
title: "Model selection principles in misspecified models"
author: "Jinchi Lv"
date: 2012-03-23
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2012 Winter"]
---

#### Date: 2012-03-23
#### Time: 15:30-16:30
#### Location: BURN 1205

## Abstract:


Model selection is of fundamental importance to high-dimensional modeling featured in many contemporary applications. Classical principles of model selection include the Bayesian principle and the Kullback-Leibler divergence principle, which lead to the Bayesian information criterion and Akaike information criterion, respectively, when models are correctly specified. Yet model misspecification is unavoidable in practice. We derive novel asymptotic expansions of the two well-known principles in misspecified generalized linear models, which give the generalized BIC (GBIC) and generalized AIC. A specific form of prior probabilities motivated by the Kullback-Leibler divergence principle leads to the generalized BIC with prior probability ($\mbox{GBIC}_p$), which can be naturally decomposed as the sum of  the negative maximum quasi-log-likelihood, and a penalty on model dimensionality, and a penalty on model misspecification directly. Numerical studies demonstrate the advantage of the new methods for model selection in both correctly specified and misspecified models.


## Speaker

	
Jinchi Lv is an Assistant Professor in the Marshall School of Business, University of Southern California. He is interested in high dimensional inference, variable selection, machine learning and financial econometrics.