---
title: "McGillivray: A penalized quasi-likelihood approach for estimating the number of states in a hidden Markov model | Best: Risk-set sampling and left truncation in survival analysis"
author: "Annaliza McGillivray and Ana Best"
date: 2012-02-17
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2012 Winter"]
---

#### Date: 2012-02-17
#### Time: 15:30-16:30
#### Location: BURN 1205

## Abstract:

	
*McGillivray*: In statistical applications of hidden Markov models (HMMs), one may have no knowledge of the number of hidden states (or order) of the model needed to be able to accurately represent the underlying process of the data. The problem of estimating the number of hidden states of the HMM is thus brought to the forefront. In this talk, we present a penalized quasi-likelihood approach for order estimation in HMMs which makes use of the fact that the marginal distribution of the observations from a HMM is a finite mixture model. The method starts with a HMM with a large number of states and obtains a model of lower order by clustering and combining similar states of the model through two penalty functions. We assess the performance of the new method via extensive simulation studies for Normal and Poisson HMMs.

*Best*: Statisticians are often faced with budget concerns when conducting studies. The collection of some covariates, such as genetic data, is very expensive. Other covariates, such as detailed histories, might be difficult or time-consuming to measure. This helped bring about the invention of the nested case-control study, and its more generalized version, risk-set sampled survival analysis. The literature has a good discussion of the properties of risk-set sampling in standard right-censored survival data. My interest is in extending the methods of risk-set sampling to left-truncated survival data. Left-truncated survival data arise in prevalent longitudinal studies. Since prevalent studies are easier and cheaper to conduct than incident studies, this extension is extremely practical and relevant. I will introduce the partial likelihood in this scenario.


## Speaker

*Annaliza McGillivray* is an M.Sc. student in our department. Se works with Abbas Khalli.

*Ana Best* is a Ph.D. candidate in our department. She works with David Wolfson.