---
title: "Robust mixture regression and outlier detection via penalized likelihood"
author: "Weixin Yao"
date: 2015-10-23
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2015 Fall"]
---

#### Date: 2015-10-23
#### Time: 15:30-16:30
#### Location: BURN 1205

## Abstract:

Finite mixture regression models have been widely used for modeling mixed regression relationships arising from a clustered and thus heterogenous population. The classical normal mixture model, despite of its simplicity and wide applicability, may fail dramatically in the presence of severe outliers. We propose a robust mixture regression approach based on a sparse, case-specific, and scale-dependent mean-shift parameterization, for simultaneously conducting outlier detection and robust parameter estimation. A penalized likelihood approach is adopted to induce sparsity among the mean-shift parameters so that the outliers are distinguished from the good observations, and a thresholding-embedded Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm is developed to enable stable and efficient computation. The proposed penalized estimation approach is shown to have strong connections with other robust methods including the trimmed likelihood and the M-estimation methods. Comparing with several existing methods, the proposed methods show outstanding performance in numerical studies.




## Speaker

Weixin Yao is an Associate Professor of Statistics at the University of California, Riverside. His research interests include mixture models, nonparametric and semiparametric modeling, longitudinal data analysis, robust estimation, high-dimensional modeling, variable selection, and dimension reduction.

