---
title: "Statistical exploratory data analysis in the modern era"
author: "Susan R. Wilson"
date: 2014-10-03
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2014 Fall"]
---

#### Date: 2014-10-03
#### Time: 15:30-16:30
#### Location: BURN 1205

## Abstract:

Major challenges arising from today's "data deluge" include how to handle the commonly occurring situation of different types of variables (say, continuous and categorical) being simultaneously measured, as well as how to assess the accompanying flood of questions. Based on information theory, a bias-corrected mutual information (BCMI) measure of association that is valid and estimable between all basic types of variables has been proposed. It has the advantage of being able to identify non-linear as well as linear relationships. Based on the BCMI measure, a novel exploratory approach to finding associations in data sets having a large number of variables of different types has been developed. These associations can be used as a basis for downstream analyses such as finding clusters and networks. The application of this exploratory approach is very general. Comparisons also will be made with other measures. Illustrative examples include exploring relationships (i) in clinical and genomic (say, gene expression and genotypic) data, and (ii) between social, economic, health and political indicators from the World Health Organisation.



## Speaker


Susan R. Wilson is a retired Professor of Statistics in the Mathematical Sciences Institute, Australian National University, Canberra.
 