---
title: "Hydrological applications with the functional data analysis framework"
author: "Fateh Chebana"
date: 2014-09-12
categories: ["McGill Statistics Seminar"]
tags: ["2014 Fall"]
---

#### Date: 2014-09-12
#### Time: 15:30-16:30
#### Location: BURN 1205

## Abstract:

	
River flows records are an essential data source for a variety of hydrological applications including the prevention of flood risks and as well as the planning and management of water resources. A hydrograph is a graphical representation of the temporal variation of flow over a period of time (continuously measured, usually over a year). A flood hydrograph is commonly characterized by a number of features, mainly its peak, volume and duration. Classical and recent multivariate approaches considered in hydrological applications treated these features jointly in order to take into account their dependence structure or their relationship. However, all these approaches are based on the analysis of a limited number of characteristics and do not make use of the full information provided by the hydrograph. Even though these approaches provided good results, they present some drawbacks and limitations. The objective of the present talk is to introduce a new framework for hydrological applications where data, such as hydrographs, are employed as continuous curves: functional data. In this context, the whole hydrograph is considered as one infinite-dimensional observation. This context contributes to addressing the problem of lack of data commonly encountered in hydrology. A number of functional data analysis tools and methods are presented and adapted.


## Speaker

Fateh Chebana is a professor of statistics and hydrology at the Institut national de la recherche scientifique (INRS), Centre eau, terre et environnement, in Québec City.


